Code ref.: GR – Rules for aquaculture; v6.0_Sep22; English version
GLOBALG.A.P. general regulations – Rules for aquaculture scope
Page 3 of 4
220929_GG_GR_Rules_for_aquaculture_v6_0_Sep22_en
1 INTRODUCTION
This document, part of the GLOBALG.A.P. general regulations (GR), applies to the Integrated 
Farm Assurance version 6 Smart (IFA v6 Smart) edition and the Integrated Farm Assurance 
version 6 GFS (IFA v6 GFS) edition.
These rules for the aquaculture scope shall be used in combination with the GLOBALG.A.P. GR
and apply to the production of all products listed under the aquaculture scope in the 
GLOBALG.A.P. product list. 
The term “shall” is used throughout the GLOBALG.A.P. normative documents to indicate 
mandatory provisions.
2 CERTIFICATION SCOPE
2.1 GLOBALG.A.P. product list
The aquaculture scope includes the following product categories at all stages of their life cycle 
and those species listed in the GLOBALG.A.P. product list:
• Finfish
• Crustaceans
• Molluscs
• Seaweed
At all stages, seedlings (ova and/or juveniles) shall originate from producers with GLOBALG.A.P.
registration/certification. Brood stock shall be obtained through an aquaculture breeding program.
If wild-caught brood stock is used, it shall originate from a fishery that has proven that it is 
ecologically managed. Passive collection of seedlings from the planktonic phase is allowed for 
molluscs’ spat.
Aquaculture certification cannot be achieved for wild aquatic species/catch that is not farmed.
Postharvest handling of aquaculture products by the same legal entity as the farm shall also 
demonstrate compliance with the postharvest/mass balance and traceability sections of the P&Cs
applicable to aquaculture in order for the producer to achieve certification.
The scope of certification clearly defines the scientific name of the farmed species in the electronic 
certificate issued in the GLOBALG.A.P. IT systems.
3 REGISTRATION
Producers shall register with the same certification body (CB) for the aquaculture certification and 
for the GLOBALG.A.P. Risk Assessment on Social Practices (GRASP). Registration for GRASP 
shall follow the GRASP general rules.
4 CB AUDIT
4.1 CB farm audit timing
The registered aquaculture species shall be present on the farm at the time of the CB audit. 
Postharvest handling operations performed by the same legal entity as the farm shall also be 
audited.